# case_study_national_hospital

## NATIONAL HOSPITAL

## Background
National Hospital, a leading healthcare institution, is dedicated to the continual enhancement of patient care through innovative approaches.
Acknowledging the transformative potential of data-driven insights, the hospital has embarked on a strategic initiative to harness the power of its extensive medical records. The Hospital plans to leverage cloud technologies to propel healthcare research, with a primary focus on disease prediction, prevention, and better patient care/experience.

## Objective
In pursuit of this mission, the Hospital recognizes the need to adopt cutting-edge solutions to effectively analyze and extract meaningful insights from vast and diverse medical datasets they collect. Traditional methods of
data processing are proving inadequate in the face of the growing volume of patient and medical records. To address this challenge, the hospital is implementing a data analytics solution on Azure, to enable seamless and efficient querying and analysis of medical data.

## Task Brief
We were hired as Data Engineers to design and implement a robust data architecture on Azure cloud for the Hospital, to meet its set objectives.
The data generated by the hospital can be found in the csv files uploaded.


## National Hospital
ERD (OLTP)

## Task pointers
### To meet the hospital's objective. 
 - We considered the following tasks
1. ﻿﻿﻿Design a dimensional data model (OLAP) for the hospital
2. ﻿﻿﻿Load the given data to a data lake/blob storage on Azure cloud
3. ﻿﻿﻿Create a Datawarehouse/database with two Schema - STG and EDW
4. ﻿﻿﻿Build a Pipeline on Azure Data Factory to copy the given files from your blob storage to tables on the Staging Schema of your data warehouse
5. ﻿﻿﻿Add activity in your pipeline to transform the data in the staging tables into your designed data warehouse model. Load the transformed data to the EDW schema
6. ﻿﻿﻿Run queries against your Data warehouse to test its efficiency.
7. ﻿﻿﻿Schedule your pipeline to refresh your Data warehouse daily.
8. ﻿﻿﻿Recommend operational process changes/optimizations to improve the data quality of the hospital.
